A live session with Ms. Pham Thi Yen,
head of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a group
of Buddhist practitioners practicing the Six Harmonies at Ba
Vang Pagoda.  Hello, teacher.
During the Q&A session, I received many
questions from our students,
but due to time
constraints, I couldn't answer them all right away
.  Therefore,
tonight and tomorrow evening, Buddhist nun
Pham Thi Yen will have two live streaming sessions
to answer all the
questions from the students.  If you
have any further questions, please feel free to
comment on the live stream so that I can
answer them.  Now, let's
move on to the question: Is attending a summer retreat
sinful?
I would like to read your questions
.  First, ma'am, if
I
happen to develop feelings for a male classmate during the 7-day summer retreat, what should I do
?  I
hope you can show me the most suitable way to do it.
The second question is on the same
topic.  What should I do during this summer retreat
?
Oh, and I intend to go to the temple to do
volunteer work, like sweeping, hoping that it will bring me good luck in
love.  I hope you will
give me the answers.  I
sincerely thank you, teacher.  And finally, there's one more friend
.  Excuse me, teacher, before going to the summer retreat,
I have a girlfriend at home.  After
leaving, he fell in love with another girl.
So, what should I do, and will I face
any consequences?  Thank you, teacher.   Please
answer my question, teacher.
She replied.  When I heard all the questions,
there were three questions, right Huy?  Three questions might just
rekindle romantic feelings between the parents.
But that's not the case.  If there are
any parents here watching the program,
Yen would like to say that as our children grow up,
they all have their own feelings.
It's similar to Huy; as he gets older, he develops
feelings.  So, when I have feelings for you and
I meet you,
those feelings of love will develop.  But in
any environment, you'll find a friend who's a good match
.  If
two people are in the same dance floor environment, they
will fall in love because of their
personalities when dancing together.  If
these two people are in the middle of a bustling marketplace, they will fall in love
because of their business acumen.  And
if the two of you go to the temple together, people
will be fond of each other because of your devotion to
Buddhism.  A heart inclined towards Buddha is a heart inclined towards
goodness.  Therefore, the
feelings you have for each other arise
from within your own emotions.
As for the environment in which it arises, the
environment in which you participate in the retreat is a
virtuous environment.  That's a good environment.
So, first of all, your initial question
is whether developing feelings for each other
at the temple constitutes a sin or creates negative
karma. The answer is no, there is
no sin or negative karma,
because the feelings between you students are
pure and innocent. But then,
what do you do next? You
can be friends with each other, helping
each other cultivate good intentions through the
Dharma teachings you hear.  At the
temple, you can exchange ideas and
improve yourselves, so in
this life you will become
good people, filial to your parents, since
you both met at the temple.
She said that when you come home from school, if you
all become filial children,
you will help each other study
better, help each other cultivate
good intentions, and perhaps even go together to practice
meditation or listen to
Dharma lectures.
You can also help each other see if
your words and actions will have karmic consequences.
When two people are together, they will lead to
goodness, bringing happiness to themselves,
their parents, and the
surrounding environment
.  Regarding the environment,
she said there was nothing
wrong with it.  The only difference is that while you're
at the temple, you don't engage in
actions like hugging, kissing,
holding hands, or having private conversations. If
you have feelings for each other, you
can contact each other after you get home
.  So, it's similar to your
second question: "I have feelings for
this person, but they live very far away, so what should I do
?"  So you can ask
each other for addresses through that youth website,
to see where your friend lives.  However,
you must maintain that common goal:
to guide each other towards goodness and help
each other become better.  Therefore, in our lives, we
really need some not-so-
good friendships.  Therefore, she strongly
encourages you all that when you go to the temple, if
you feel affection for each other, then when you go home you will
talk to each other, communicate with each other,
and help each other to do good.
When you show more care and connect with
such kind people, and you exchange ideas,
you'll find greater harmony and understanding.  Because when two people share the same
good intentions, they will be
more in sync.  She also has many
young couples where, after falling in love, one
person is not a Buddhist and the other
is.
So, when you have conflicts,
you ask people why one person is
very kind-hearted and believes in
karma, while the other doesn't.  As a
result, when they talk to each other,
they will have conflicts that they ca
n't resolve.  Therefore,
two friends who are both Buddhists
will get along better and find it easier to forgive
each other.  Because we understand cause and effect, it's easier to
forgive each other and listen to each other
.  That's the benefit of attending a
meditation retreat.  As for feelings, if you're in a
relationship that's meant to be,
then you can still fall in love.  There.  But
their love will be different from the
love of those who don't embrace
Buddhism.  That's the benefit.  As for you saying
you're going to the temple, and the second person saying that
going to the temple can help improve your
love life, that's
also a good aspiration.
In life, we have many pursuits of
happiness, and we
often seek happiness through knowledge and
blessings.  But all of that
depends on a person's character
.  If a person has a kind and gentle nature,
they will feel
more fortunate and things will come to them
more easily.  If you go to the temple, perform good deeds, and then
dedicate that merit to improving your love life,
then that will also work out.  That's because
if we have a wife or
husband with a bad character, it will be
difficult for us to succeed in our careers
.  That
can nurture your heart because
your heart is your happiness.  Actually, it's not that
external things bring
me happiness, but rather that
my own heart brings me happiness.
Therefore, two people with good hearts will bring
happiness to themselves and
to each other.  That second case is
still a good one.  In the
third case, if someone says they already had a
boyfriend/girlfriend back home but
developed feelings for someone
else during the retreat, are they at fault?
She said there was nothing wrong with this part.  Because
when you're in love, you're getting to
know someone, finding someone who shares your thoughts and
goals.  So, if you two
go to the temple and find that you both
share a devotion to Buddhism, meaning you
both have a virtuous inclination, then you
should still choose the person who shares
your virtuous inclination, and you can answer the
other person, "Would you like to go to the temple with me
?"  Are you inclined towards goodness?  If
you don't, then I'd say that
doesn't fit
your worldview.  My philosophy of life is that one's heart
must be inclined towards goodness.  And when our hearts are inclined towards goodness, it
becomes easier to resolve all
conflicts.  So, there's nothing
wrong with having feelings for one person and breaking up with another.  But you can't
love two people at the same time.
You have to look around,
and you can break up with your old partner before you
start a new one.  The problem is that
love is a matter of choice,
so there's nothing wrong with that.  I see that she also
hopes that young people will learn to cultivate virtue and practice self-
cultivation
so that they may receive good karmic rewards,
even at such a young age
.  You have learned about the law of cause and effect to
benefit yourselves on the path to a happy love life
.  That's a good thing.  She also
encouraged them to look for
friends, not just romantic partners
.  Find friends who are
Buddhist practitioners.  So, if your companions
are Buddhists,
people who believe in karma, then these people
will never harm you.  In life,
when I encounter difficulties or unexpected events, my
Buddhist friends will be there to
share my burden and offer me
more support.
Thank you, teacher.  So we
can see that when you go to a temple and develop
feelings, it's not a sin.
What's important is
whether your heart turns towards goodness afterward, and
whether both you and the other person turn towards goodness. That's what truly matters.  Okay, I'll
move on to the next question.  Okay,
second question: how do you navigate love
?  Excuse me, teacher, I want to ask,
if there's someone I love but
don't reciprocate my feelings, yet they're
kind to me and do everything for me,
what should I do?  Respond
in a way that is correct.  I would appreciate it if you could show me the right
way to do it.   For
young people, love is a primary concern, and
it goes hand in hand with their relationship.   It's the same with
school; sometimes we
don't pay enough attention to our studies.  But stepping through the
school gates doesn't immediately bring up the topic of
lessons or the tasks one needs to
perform.  As I walked through the school gate, I was
captivated by their affection for each other.  Therefore,
feelings will be closely associated with school days,
and affection and love will be closely linked
to school days.  And during
your school years, you know, this
girl also has some
very interesting perspectives. She sees someone who
cares for her and seems
compatible with her in every way, but she has
n't yet developed romantic feelings.
Now she doesn't know how to treat that person.
If she doesn't love
them, she feels like she can
reciprocate, but
if she doesn't have romantic feelings, it
's very difficult to act.  So
today I'm here to share my perspective with you all
.  Actually, in the old days,
our ancestors didn't have the concept of love as we
know it today.  Love is
an emotion that makes
people feel excited from the very first moment
.  So, anything that doesn't
stir emotions in a moment of
love, that's not what people call
love.  That's the opinion of a
very large number of people.  Then she
reconsidered her perspective on love, trying
to understand what it truly was and how to make it
lasting.  Seeing this, I'd like to
share this with you today.
Looking back, in those old days, couples
didn't come together out of love; instead, they married whoever their
parents chose.  That means it's
confined to the village boundaries.  Everyone has
knowledge stemming from their family background.
This person checks whether the child has received a
good and well-behaved education.  Is that son of
theirs a responsible man
?  Are they hardworking or
diligent?  The
consequences of parents deciding where their children sit are
n't necessarily true
.  The
parents were also very subtle when
analyzing things for their children.  "This is the family my mother is marrying me into
."  In this family, there's a
tradition where the mother analyzes things for her daughter
in this way.  And the parents on the other side
also explained to their son that
this family, his mother is hardworking
, caring, patient
, and knows how to take care of the family.
There.  So, when men and
women have the
mindset that they are looking very far ahead, thinking
that this person, this
place, will bring them peace and security in their
lives.  And the man also said that
this person would be
his partner, helping him with
housework, cooking, and childcare so that he could
focus on important matters.  That's why
their lives are so happy.  So, in the way
we call it, parents
decide where their children are born, and that already contains all the
love involved.  Firstly, it allows one to see
the individual
qualities of each person.  That's the
heart, that's the virtue.  Secondly,
responsibility is a matter of loyalty and affection.
So, responsibility means that people come
together with a thorough consideration of feelings and
emotions.  See?   Stop
.  But this feeling of liking
someone doesn't involve knowing anything about their family background or
their personality.  That's
the feeling I like.  Without knowing someone's
character, their resilience, and the
kind of upbringing their family has given their children, one knows
absolutely nothing.
Therefore, that feeling that is called
love is actually not really
love.  What is love?  Love is a
feeling of affection.  Yes, I like it.
What do you like?  I admire the kinds of
love that people experience.  That's
the feeling within us humans.  Now,
people are getting confused, especially young people, and there's a
lot of confusion.  It was a feeling
at first that I called falling in love with the wrong person.
But I really don't know anything about
that person.  It's unknown how
that person will
behave or cope during difficult times.   It's
unclear whether that person has acquired the
knowledge necessary to navigate life.   It's
still unknown how people will react.   We
don't know how their parents raised them
.  That means being completely clueless,
knowing absolutely nothing.  Therefore, the kind of
feeling that arises from seeing something and
immediately falling in love with it is a form of blindness.
In the old days, when people were in love, they weren't
blind.  Saying that parents arrange marriages for their children is
n't blind isn't true because once you know the truth, there's no
longer any agreement.  What about
marriages for money, for example, in the old days, there
were families who were so poor they had to sell their
daughters to another family.  But
people also have a clear direction.  It is because of
my father, my mother, and the sacrifices they made for this life that
I have to become a daughter-in-law.  But once a woman becomes a daughter-in-law,
she learns patience and
forbearance; although it's difficult, she does
n't suffer too much.  That's compared to
what blind love has to
endure in this day and age, an
age where a feeling arises from
an initial sensation and is mistaken for
love because one lacks knowledge and
therefore cannot analyze
their own heart.  One kind of liking leads to relentless pursuit, while the other gives the
feeling that I must
possess, I must win, I
must obtain it at all costs.  It blinds us, it
obscures what we need to understand.  I
forgot, I just saw something I liked or
something in front of me.  That is, a
fleeting feeling, naturally
following that fleeting feeling without searching for
anything else.  After living together for a
while, falling in love for a while, they realize that
certain qualities don't suit them, their
dreams are shattered, and they break up.  I gave up, and I also
lacked the knowledge that love is about
choosing people for yourself. From
broken relationships to broken family happiness, some
people lack direction and
live their whole lives
without knowing what true love is, always
chasing after
their initial feelings. They have a family, then they
see someone else, like them, leave their
family, get married again, like them, leave again, and
so on. They
may rebuild their
happiness countless times, but they never find happiness, and
their careers fail.
There.  So here she's also saying that if you
have a friend who has that kind of feeling
for you, you should cultivate
that feeling in return.  Those
people who understand
life's complexities, when they
build a relationship, find that it becomes
very strong and lasting later on.  That's right, just like
she used to say, that she told everyone
that from childhood until now she had never
loved anyone, that kind of love, that kind of infatuation,
she never experienced.  When she reunited with
her husband, it presented a series of challenges.  This person
's father passed away early, so they have
responsibilities to support their family, which will lead to difficulties.
And thirdly, if someone cares
about you, they won't easily
abandon you.  And the important thing is that I
will know how to care for myself and
I should also care for my
family's needs.  It's not
a fleeting, infatuated love, but it
can involve a great deal of responsibility towards each other, and
that can overcome many
obstacles in life.  She also had
traits that came with following
social trends during her youth.  Back then,
people were having affairs like this and
that, but maybe at that time I
saw my husband as
not as handsome as other women.  But then
I thought about the emotional aspect.
I thought about love again, and I knew
that in this world, there's definitely no
one who could be as good to me as
this person.  Attention, care.  And even
my husband knows that there's
no one in the world who can take
care of me better than he can.
Forgiving each other's mistakes is more common because when there are
too many good qualities,
people tend to forgive shortcomings more easily.
However, if this person lacks
any positive qualities, when they
like someone else, they will easily abandon
their existing family to
pursue something new.  Therefore,
I believe that since you are all
very young trainees, you should equip
yourselves with knowledge about emotions and the
definition of other people's hearts. This will ensure you are
always confident and
will also help you awaken the emotions
within yourself. Living with those
emotions is what brings
happiness.  I have always been a
responsible, loving, and
dedicated person to my family.  And if that other
person lived like that, then
this society would truly be beautiful.  And that
is precisely how I am sowing
good seeds in my present life.
That's someone who knows how to sow good seeds.
Knowing how to see the emotions of others
means knowing how to sow seeds and how to
overcome difficulties,
because people also use
their own inherent emotions to teach their children.
But those who, in those
initial moments of seeing each other, seeing each other
without understanding anything about each other, develop feelings of
affection, a desire to compete, a desire to
possess—these are people who cannot raise their
children with that kind of love.  People
tell very superficial stories,
they are influenced by things from the outside,
and they teach their children
in the same way.  Therefore, let's
look at that initial moment of
affection—that's what we
call blind affection, not
love, but a kind of
blind infatuation.  I still don't understand
my own feelings.  That means I don't
understand what I like about that person
.
Considering the whole situation, it's still unknown what kind of character they actually possess
.  Are you filial to your
parents?  It's unknown.  Should you be responsible
towards your friends?  It's unknown.  Should you take
responsibility for your best friend or not?  It's
unknown.  The old man was blindly infatuated,
completely oblivious to the person he loved
and blindly pursued.  And that kind of
love can fall apart at any moment.  It's just
like a bubble.  Because
the bubble only has an
outer membrane, anything that touches it will
break it.  That's it, when people
don't understand each other, it's all just that
slender waistline.  If someone else has a
slimmer waist tomorrow, then
this slimmer waist will be completely shattered.  It will fall apart
because the inside isn't solid, it's not as stable as the
outside, which is based on authenticity and
necessity.  We love to build and
develop, and in family life, we need
someone who possesses certain kinds of love.
Let's seek those kinds of love in our
friends.  We will build a
happy family.
Thank you for your sharing, teacher.
So, since we all desire a
lasting love,
our students should also know that we should
guide our love with
increasingly profound wisdom so that
we can understand
what qualities in our partners we love.   I would like to
move on to the third question
.  Question number three: When should we discourage
our children from being in love?  Hello, Auntie.  Excuse me, I'd like to
ask you about my sister. She used to be in a relationship with a
guy, but my parents didn't approve.   It took my sister a long time to finally
break up with him.  But
after breaking up with him, my niece
started acting up towards our parents.  I'm not
listening to my parents anymore.  Whatever my mother says, my
sister argues back with her.  Excuse me, ma'am,
what should I do
to convince my sister?  Yes, I'll be calling you "Miss."
So, the question is, my
older sister fell in love with someone, then my
parents forbade her from continuing the relationship,
and eventually she managed to break up with
him.  But after the
breakup, this woman's attitude
towards
her child's loving parents changed,
and she tried to
prevent her child's relationship. What were the consequences of her actions?   There
are actually many things that parents do to
prevent their children from being in love, and the
most serious issue in our society now is going to a fortune
teller who says they are incompatible according to their birth years.
She always stopped me.  That's the
issue that
frustrates many young people and instills
a lot of superstition in them.  So,
what we do is determined by our thoughts,
words, and actions
.  If these two people
go to a fortune teller and their ages are incompatible,
but they share the same aspirations, discuss their plans together, listen
to each other, and cooperate—meaning they
discuss everything
together in a
positive way—then they can still achieve their goals.  What about the parents?   With
such wisdom, age is
irrelevant.  How can age be a
deciding factor?  It's not a
decisive factor, you know
.  Because people have
become intelligent beings on their own.  But what
if two people are
compatible in terms of age, but one of them is addicted to
alcohol, gambling, or drugs? Will
the family be happy?  So,
at what age in this world do people
become addicted so that we can avoid it?
If we're talking about age, it's a deciding factor
right from the start.  Because each person has their
own unique qualities, which are then combined with common elements.
I'm so capable, if you marry me, you'll
be happy.  Then I have to find
out what age is considered a good age.  They're all
presidents, they're all
scientists.  Then I will choose to marry at
that age.  There.  Or, for example, parents who get married
and have a child who becomes a scientist.
Parents who marry at certain ages and have
children will be poor for a long time.
Therefore, we don't have
such a reality.  Therefore, when we
observe cases where parents prevent their
children from being together because of age, and the children try to persuade them
but the parents still refuse, the children will feel
helpless.  But as they fell in love,
they found they were very compatible.
They can share everything with each other
.
You see, when two people are in love, they can share everything with each other
, listen to each other, help each other become
better people, and confide in each other so
much.  But now that his parents are preventing him, he
has no way to disobey them.
Therefore, in this situation,
I cannot convince my mother or
my sister to be filial to our
parents because it appeals to their
hearts.  Whenever she and that other guy are together, they can
resolve all their issues.
Where are you two settling down now?  She lost something
she cherished, something her parents lost,
which is also a consequence of her own
emotional state.  If you take it away from me, I will be angry with
you.  This doesn't count as parents or father and son
.  If this person has not yet truly
learned the Buddhist principle of filial piety.  Even learning filial
piety, as taught in Buddhism, requires a
long period of practice before one can resolve the
issue of sacrificing everything.  Because my parents are very strict.
It's not like someone who's just started practicing Buddhism can
achieve that.  That's right, it takes a very long time to cultivate virtue because
every living being has a selfish nature, only thinking of
themselves, only thinking of themselves.  Because when they are born,
parents teach their children, they must teach
them because they
teach for their own benefit, what else could it be? They
never teach them things like, "Look, Mom has
worked so hard like this, Mom has worked so
hard to support Grandma and Grandpa."   I
never taught like that.  Because I'm not like that, so
why should I teach?  Therefore, it will
never be filial to you
from the beginning; you can only teach it what it is.
Study hard so you can
earn money and have an easier time later.  Basically, I'm
just someone who works to earn money to
support myself and my children.   Another
thing is that we teach our children to be filial and respectful
to their parents.  Because I was not filial, I was
unable to teach them.  Therefore, every
child carries in their mind what is
best for themselves.  It embodies the
idea that you should do whatever is good for you
.  Right then, we taught it to memorize it
.  Even as a tiny child, he already thought
like that.  When he goes to school, he thinks what's best
for him.  Therefore, children get upset if their parents don't
fulfill their requests.  That's how
we've been raising our children from the very beginning.
Then they'll say, "Well, you should
get married so you have someone to rely on
when you're sick."  That's just because of it, again.
Therefore, it only thought that if it got sick,
someone else would take care of it.  Therefore,
we have created for our children a
generation with an ideology and a
self-centered mindset.  Therefore, we must pick the fruit of the
y ky fruit.  Picking the wolfberry fruit and then being told that there's
no more mother-child affection between them really
annoys me.  That's an element of the mind.
Therefore, we must rely on the
mental aspect to educate people.  If
we educate our children from a young age that, as their mother, they must be filial,
then they should be dutiful.  Today, we have something to
bring to Grandma and Grandpa.
That's what we eat and drink.  Today, I'll leave some of this food
for Grandma and Grandpa first.
That child will eventually prioritize you over
others.  Because it also thinks
about its own filial piety, and it tries
to find friends who are filial before
accepting them.  If someone is not filial,
it will not accept them.  That means it knows how to live
for others, showing gratitude and kindness.  That's
why our current education system
prioritizes the child first, then second, and it's not yet the case that the child comes first, then
oneself.  That's why
everyone is teaching each other, you know.  Therefore,
the result is that if we analyze the situation
for them but they suffer losses, they will
fight back and wait for us.
Therefore, in any case,
you must teach your children in a way that aligns with your own approach
.  If you want to change,
you have to start from the root;
you have to admit you were wrong.  Those parents have been so
preoccupied with their work for so many years that they've been
truly selfish and haven't taken care of their grandparents.
Now Mom realizes her mistake too.  Now that
I've learned my lesson, from now on I'll be considerate of my
grandparents.  Then, because of
their repentance, their children will turn their hearts around and also act in their parents' best interests
.  That's how I can
convince my mother that only she
can do this, and I ca
n't, because love is about doing what we want,
not about conforming to our wishes.
We must understand people's hearts before
we can shape them,
and this shaping must be gradual and consistent.  That's how
a mother can mold
her child's heart and bring about change in them.  There.  In
this case, I can't
change her because she's already been educated
in a way that's all for her.  She lacked
education because of others, so
now it's very difficult to change her mindset
.  And then there's the next aspect, one
that mothers need to pay attention to.   If
we want to advise our children to leave
someone, we need to understand
exactly who that person is.
What are the weaknesses of your friend, son?  This is what he's addicted to
.  Is your friend addicted to something that will bring suffering to
your child, or does your friend have a bad character,
or does your friend's family have bad qualities that will cause them to
lose something?  My mother is afraid that if I inherit those genes and follow that profession later in life, it
won't be good.  That means letting
this child gradually absorb it into their
thinking.  In terms of ideology, it gives up
very easily on its own.  Or, the
mother could create some opportunities for
the visitor to reveal their
negative personality traits, and then the mother could say, "
This person's behavior is
bad, or they're doing this or
that. This is how I see it."  Later, when he returned to
his family, things were like this and that.
To allow the child to see the
truth for themselves, to think for themselves, and to
break free from the situation on their own, through
such advice, the child will rely on
you because you are the one with analytical skills, whereas
they will not treat
you with ill will.  That is the natural law of cause
and effect in the mind.
Hopefully, through this, mothers who
follow along will learn how to raise their children
and how to
intervene in
their children's relationships in a proper and appropriate way,
so that their children benefit
and do not become disrespectful to them.
Thank you for sharing your thoughts, teacher.
Those were three questions about love
and happiness.  I would like to invite you and all my
classmates to the topic of questions about life
.
Question number 4: Why do so few people apply to
agricultural and industrial universities?
Hello teacher, my name is Hien and I'm from the
Trac Bach Diep group.  My question is
why, despite industry and
agriculture being the main economic sectors
driving our country's development,
universities specializing in industry and
agriculture have very low admission scores.
It might even just be a last resort
for a few students who have to take the entrance exam for
that school.  I
sincerely hope that this young man
will one day become successful and rise to become the
Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of
Industry.  She also really hopes for
that because he's young and already
interested in this issue.  If he is truly destined for it,
he will be
able to develop these professions and industries
for our country.   As
individuals, we come into
contact with society and see that agricultural work is
very hard, and no one wants to work in
that field.  Seeing that the mining industries involved in
ore extraction required constant digging and working deep
underground,
no one went there anymore.  When people look back,
they see things like banking,
accounting, management, and information technology—what else could they
study?
Computer science is an
easy job, that's why so many people apply to study it.  She
sincerely hopes that you will achieve great success in your studies and
contribute to the
development of Vietnam's agriculture and industry.   I'm really looking forward to it
.  I hope you become a top-tier
engineer, not just an
ordinary person.  I am very grateful for your concern
for my younger sibling, but it's also a concern for the
development of our country.
Thank you for sharing your thoughts, teacher.
I hope you will become a very talented
industrial or agricultural engineer in the
future and contribute to the development of the
country.
Following up on question number 5: What should I do if I
'm being discriminated against by a teacher?  Excuse me,
teacher, do you believe that teacher discrimination is
real?  My class has had
cases like this, teacher.  Allow me
to give a few examples.  A student with a
heart condition had to undergo surgery and was forced to take
time off from school.
Your classmate's essay was written by a classmate, but when the teacher
graded the two papers, they were identical, even though they were submitted
a while apart.  One essay received
an eight, but the other only got a
six.  Excuse me, ma'am, could you please share your
thoughts on this repressive viewpoint
?  I beg you, teacher.
Dear friends, I am
very bad at writing, and I have also experienced something similar
to what that student has gone through.  That means she copied
her classmate's essay, but her own essay got a
higher grade
because she was a well-behaved student in the class
.  Therefore, her grade
will be given preferential treatment by the teacher.  That's what
she said: the phenomenon of bullying and
favoritism among students does exist.  But
why were they persecuted?  There are many
reasons for this.
For good teachers,
their promotion will be based on their conduct.
This person, despite my behavior,
might give me an extra point because of my good conduct
.  It's the same
essay, but if your conduct grade isn't
good, they'll lower it by one point, meaning a
difference of two points. That's acceptable, and the
teacher will still consider it good.   It happens a
lot.  If parents care about the
teachers, the teachers will treat the
students well, and if parents don't care about the
teachers, the teachers won't treat the students well
.  That is a prominent issue in
our education system.  Because it applies
to teachers who have prioritized money
over ethics, who lack professional responsibility and
enthusiasm for their
profession; they have strayed
too far for money, losing the qualities of a
teacher.  She has one thing she is very
grateful for.  She has a son who is in
12th grade this year at
Hon Gai High School.
She doesn't even know her
teacher's name yet because she's so busy that
she always asks Buddhist nuns to attend
meetings on her behalf.
But honestly, the teacher who is the homeroom
teacher and also teaches Math to my grandchild is a
truly dedicated and
passionate person.
On the day her child was sick, she only sent a text
message saying, "I'm asking for permission for my child
to be absent because he/she is ill."  The teacher left
this message.  Yes, I received the message.
Please let the child rest and take him/her to the doctor
.  I will review the material with my
grandchild once he recovers from his illness.  Isn't that great?
Absolutely amazing.  As a conscientious teacher,
she always directs her heart towards gratitude,
and only when her child is cared for by the teachers can
she feel at ease pursuing her religious life
.  And she also really
liked the teacher she had never met.
And when she did something, she always
wished for the
teacher's health and
happiness.  Hopefully,
the teacher will gain prestige and become an
excellent teacher.  Hopefully, the teacher
will be loved by many students.  That's
the teacher I really admire—
admirable in the sense that I don't know his face or name,
but I'm sure that for the rest of my life,
whenever I think of my child's teachers,
I'll always think of this teacher.
Although I've never met her, and would
say
she's indifferent, it's not
because she's too busy, so
she asks Buddhist followers to participate in things for her. But deep down, she's
not
indifferent; she respects and cherishes the teacher she's only
heard from, sometimes
only hearing her voice on the phone, but she's always
so respectful and considerate.  The
teacher is young, not
old at all.  He's very young.  And her child also said that she
really likes the teacher.  I greatly admire you, teacher.
That's the comparison she's making between
this teacher and the teachers of
her generation back in the day.  Her generation in the old days.
Great teachers are always
there.  The primary and secondary school teachers were also very
good, enthusiastic, and dedicated to their
students.  The girls weren't just learning
knowledge; they were also learning about the moral character of
the teachers of the past.  She remembers
that in middle school, there was a math lesson
where the
teacher and she would discuss something
she didn't understand for over an hour, almost two hours, and she had a habit of staying
behind.  Because she answered the first time she asked, the
next time she asked, and so on, and so
on.  Throughout almost the entire school year, there wasn't a single day
when the teacher and students said goodbye at the end of class.
Those are the teachers I'll
never forget, and many of the
teachers who taught literature and all the other subjects will
never forget them either.  It's very precious.
So, in an
era where teachers and moral standards are
n't what we'd like,
what should we, as students, do?  We must be well-behaved and studious
so that we won't be discriminated against.  Even if
our parents don't have money to give to the
teacher, the teacher still cherishes the students just
because they are well-behaved.  I completed all the tasks in class
, helping the teacher
finish her work even though I
didn't get paid, but I also awakened
the conscience of the teacher.
If the teacher is not good, we can
awaken the teacher's conscience
if we are a good student.  That's
not necessarily the case in this society where
others have to be good first before
we can follow suit and become good ourselves.
Her perspective is that she should be a good person first, so that
if others are bad, they
will become good like her.  There.  That's one
perspective, and I hope all
our students share that perspective
.  We will be good people.
We will awaken the consciences of
those bad teachers and turn them
into good ones.  That's the law of karma; you reap what you
sow
.
Thank you for sharing, ma'am.  The
next question concerns a reality that
occurs among students of many ages and the consequences of their
actions.  "Teacher, nowadays, people
often swear as a
habit, or
they unconsciously blurt out swear words when they're angry."  I'd like to
ask if swearing without malicious intent
will bring bad karma?  If so,
if such karma exists, what kind of karma is it?  I hope you can
answer my question.  Thank you, teacher
.  I
will now analyze the consequences of your actions for you
.  There's no need to look far for retribution
.  In the unconscious,
we are always out of control
.  We can never control things that become habits
.
But if you currently have
someone who likes you, and you're putting on a
show, meaning you're always polite,
but then you suddenly and unconsciously start cursing, that's what you're doing
.  That's karma.  The other person will look
closely and leave you.  That's karma.   Leaving aside
the consequences in the next life, let's consider
this life alone.  Secondly,
if you want someone you've grown up with to
trust you, you should try your best
to win their trust in person.  But then,
unconsciously, he started swearing again.
Then you will lose this relationship.  And all that hard
work and effort can be lost just because of a single
sentence I say.  That's a
swear word.  And another thing is that
if you swear or use foul language, you will face immediate consequences in the present moment, and
you will not attract
decent people to you.  I won't have any
decent friends coming into my life.
And if someone were to look for someone to trust who swears and curses like that,
no one would look for such people to
be a source of trust.  And
another part is called choosing the right person for the job.  That's right, if you're too picky about who you
entrust your money to, you'll miss out on
the very first opportunity.  But even
if I swear and use foul language, it takes
a long time for someone to get to
know my character, and only then will
they choose me.
Therefore, it will take time for me to gain
other people's trust.
Therefore, I am experiencing the consequences of my actions right
now.  Furthermore, if
you frequently use foul language,
your temperament will be
unstable, and you
won't be able to think deeply because you'll become
hot-tempered.  I was so annoyed I just swore, I swear
.  Then I would become a
short-tempered person.  But if people
don't have a habit of swearing,
then if something happens, they won't swear
immediately; they'll think about it first.  That's
how I choose
my partners;
I don't choose people who swear or use foul language
because it
destroys trust, makes it
difficult to control my temper,
and makes it hard to
build long-term, stable relationships
.  That's the consequence of being someone who
swears and curses a lot, and when you go to a
high or good place, your behavior
feels out of place.  A good example of a high vantage point is when
you go to a wedding and
you're swearing or cursing,
but then you hear someone cursing and everyone turns around to
look.  I would be completely out
of place there.  Then, when you go to places with
many conferences
or cultural events, if you
swear, many people will turn around and
stare, and you'll
naturally lose confidence or
look ridiculous. But if
someone doesn't swear or use foul language,
even when interacting with someone who does, they'll
still be
respected; they won't feel out of place, and
they'll appear refined.  In
places that are refined and noble,
people find it easier to be accepted, to
integrate, and to adapt.  That
is cause and effect right now.
Therefore, you should fix it.  If you use
foul language, you should correct it.  Otherwise, you might be
sitting at a friend's house, or your
girlfriend's house, drinking water, and
suddenly you see this case on TV and you're shocked, "
Oh my god, that guy!"  That's all. Following one's
heart means following one's temperament and habits.  That's just how
it's gotten used to it.  It's a habit,
not a practice; it's a learned
habit, a predisposition,
not just worldly custom.  That's how
we cultivate that habit, and then we wo
n't be able to control it.  Therefore, it's best to
control or avoid using foul language
so that we can adapt to
life more easily.
Oh, thank you, teacher.   At
this point, a question arose in my mind: for
example, if we encounter a
bad person intending to steal from a house,
or if a bad person enters someone's
house to commit a
crime, and the neighbor
runs out and scolds
them so that the
perpetrator runs away and doesn't do
it anymore, what would the karmic consequences be
in this case
?  Could you please explain this to me, teacher?
And all those people who treat others well,
behave well, and don't swear or use foul language, even in
such situations, they still swear, meaning they've become
proficient; they've learned
a lot about how to behave in the world.  So,
for example, if a woman encounters a
robber, she can still shout and
curse because she knows that doing so
will scare them. People with clear minds and intelligence
will develop all the
means to react accordingly.  It's
not like someone who doesn't know how to swear when sick will be
too scared to swear when chasing a robber
.  That's not the case.  They will be able
to adapt very easily to
all situations.  As for chasing after a
robber and cursing at him, that obviously
stems from the person's annoyance and the desire to curse, which
could bring them disadvantage.   No, that's
not right.
Yes.  Thank you, teacher.  Question number
seven.  How can I get rid of
negative thoughts?  I want to ask you something, teacher.
Sometimes I have
inappropriate or naughty thoughts, even though I don't
mean to.  Many times, after I finished speaking, I even recited
Buddhist prayers, but there was still no
change.  I want to ask you,
ma'am, is this because I'm being haunted by a spirit?  And
how can I prevent my child from having
those thoughts again?  Thank you, teacher
.
I will teach you how to think
about the power of karma when you give rise to
unwholesome thoughts, when you have unwholesome thoughts
in response to an event
.  The power of karma
created in a previous life is called cause.  As for
thoughts in the present moment, that's what we call
fate or destiny.
From cause and effect, it will bear fruit.  That's
called cause and effect.  When we create
an unwholesome thought, for example,
seeing those two people fighting, the
unwholesome thought is that we enjoy it too much.
Then, if you recite "Amitabha Buddha" at that time,
your suffering will immediately end.
Because the act of reciting Buddha's name and the act of fighting between the two people are completely
unrelated,
it has no transformative effect.
Yet, people at that time had to think that if
these two people fought, one of them would
get hurt because it would cause them pain.  I ca
n't stand the pain either.  If I
don't want anyone to hit me, why would
I like it when people fight?
Therefore, that idea is flawed.  Hopefully, they
won't fight, nobody will get
hurt, and nobody will have to go to the hospital.  Let's
not hurt each other.  That will
purify the defiled and impure thoughts caused
by karmic forces.  This very cause and effect
will lead to a result, which means it will completely transform into
a different outcome.  They're going in two different directions
.  But if we encounter any
problem, we should still say "Amitabha
Buddha."  Amitabha Buddha is Amitabha Buddha
.  As for the other matter, the
transfer hasn't happened yet.  That is, the seed sown of Amitabha
Buddha is actually a different kind of seed.  It
hasn't grown from this nucleus yet.  There.  Therefore, when
we practice Buddhism, we must
know how to apply Buddhist teachings so that we can
develop our thinking based on the Eightfold Path to
liberation.  Right opinions lead to
right thinking.  So what exactly is the political stance here
?  The correct view is that if we are wicked,
we will fall into ruin; if we are virtuous, we will not fall into
ruin.  Evil causes suffering to
everyone, while good brings happiness
to everyone.  Therefore, I abandoned evil and embraced
good.  Let go of evil thoughts and embrace
good thoughts.  Abandon evil speech and embrace
kind speech, abandon evil deeds and embrace
good deeds—that is the way we
think to transform
our negative thoughts.  The other one is
easy for you to understand.  For example, consider this a
human body, and this external
environment. If you keep hitting it
repeatedly, the body cannot regenerate itself,
and the person will not have
time to heal.  But once we
get rid of this attacker,
people can regenerate, they can cure diseases.
So what happens when these aromatic substances have an effect
?  It means I'm not in control of my
actions and I can't manage
my emotions.  And what if, when there are no
external distractions,
we have time to think, to
control our emotions and feelings, to
control our thoughts?  Therefore,
you should consider these two
scenarios: one where you realize you
have your own karma that needs to be transformed,
and the other where you are
harmed by an evil person.
Thank you for your answer, teacher.
Next question, question number 9.
Teacher, this question is about how to maintain a close
friendship.  Excuse me, teacher, my best friend and I
have been friends for 13 years
.  But lately, I feel like things are
n't the same between us anymore.  The other person
no longer accompanies the child as often as before,
and they don't talk or confide in
each other as frequently as they used to.
According to you, what should we do
to become
close friends again like before?
She also encountered many
cases where best friends became jealous of
each other.  So, that means we can't
define friendship at each stage
.
When we were young, we loved
playing with other children, and the
elders would call them "little friends who bite each other in half."  They would
share whatever food they had,
give each other whatever their mothers had,
and confide in each other about everything; it became
a habit
for people of opposite sexes.
Then it gives rise to needs in
life.  For example, if there's someone more skilled than you, you
need to approach them and ask for their expertise in that area
so they can develop their skills.  There are many
aspects of life where people
have to turn to others for
advice, and the level of emotional connection
they have with
you is no longer the same as when you were a child.
Therefore, if we don't know how to analyze
our own minds, we will suffer.
My friend wouldn't possibly come and ask me about
something I don't know and something I ca
n't share with them in all
aspects of life.  I
can't share that, and I ca
n't replace someone of the opposite sex
to become their lover.
Therefore, we need to know at what point in
time friends should show
care and concern for each other.  As we
grow older, we should share with
each other whatever we can, within our capabilities, that we can all have in
common.
For example, imagine two friends, one excelling in literature and the other in
mathematics. In the future, they'll likely pursue two different
paths, two different careers.
How would we choose for ourselves in such a situation
?  Share your feelings.  For example,
what is your family life like?  If
your life prevents your husband from being angry with you, you
can use your advice to prevent
your husband and you from being angry with each other.
There, we'll be able to maintain this close
friendship for a very long time.  Therefore,
when we have a close friend,
we should divide the process into different
stages.  If you
develop feelings for someone, we
can also discuss what kind of person you want to love and
what personality traits would be beneficial to
each other.  That way, we can maintain our close
friendship.  That's why she said
that to keep a close friend, you
have to understand what makes you happy
.  Your happiness will need that, and
I will help you achieve
that happiness.  And if you help
yourself achieve these happiness, then
these two friends will become best
friends.  Therefore, if you want to
understand yourself and stay true to
yourself, you must understand
your own needs, and then you will understand your
friend's needs.
So I just said, "Go ahead and have fun,
we'll talk another time."  That means
love is useless, and friendship can
never be truly beneficial.
Therefore, true friendship always involves seeing
your friend succeed, which in turn allows you to
gain close friends and maintain
those friendships for a long time.  She
also has a very close friend.
Now her best friend has become a
nun, but she and her friend initially had
two different viewpoints when they entered the monastic life, although
they still communicated with each other.  This
is my point of view, and that is
yours.  But then, knowing that our
viewpoints differed on how to
practice, we still agreed on
each other's choices and
supported each other in whatever way we could, even if
my viewpoint was
correct.  I can support you in
my correct viewpoint, and you supporting me
in your correct viewpoint means you
see me as right.  As for anything we
disagree on, we'll leave
it for both sides to figure out and
analyze on their own without losing
face.  It's not like we can just choose who we
hang out with and only play
with each other.  I don't know whether doing this is
good or bad.  Sometimes, even if your best friend
is having a family gathering today, you'll
still insist on taking them out to play, which can be seen as
disrespectful to your parents.  That's not the case; instead,
we should help each other, as close friends, to
improve ourselves and benefit each other
in the law of cause and effect, and find happiness
in the present moment. Only then will we have
a lasting and close friendship.
Thank you, teacher.  Next, I would like to
move on to question number 10.
This question relates to how to train oneself to
improve concentration while studying.
I think this is a question many
young people are struggling with, which is why
two people asked the same question.
First, how can I help my child
concentrate while studying?  When
studying, my child often loses focus,
thinking about other things and having
many distracting thoughts.  I am deeply grateful for
your kind explanation.   The
second sentence shows that I understand the
importance of my studies.
My parents also have high expectations for my studies.
But I don't understand why I have absolutely
no interest in studying.  I really
want to study hard, but I can't concentrate
on my studies.  I hope you can show me the
way, ma'am.  Thank you, teacher.  I beg you, teacher
.
We will now analyze concentration
and dispersion.  Once we analyze
these two words, we'll know
how to choose the most
relevant one.  So, during the process of
focusing, we will create the
initial time frame.  That means you
have to set a specific goal for what you'll be doing during this time
so you can
focus.  For example, in our temple, we practice in the
same way; we set a framework, a
time frame, for
what we will practice within a 30-minute period.  For
example, some nuns, like those who
practice meditation, spend 30 minutes walking meditation, 30 minutes
contemplating a particular subject;
they only focus on one subject.  That's
how people focus; otherwise, trying to do
two things at once will cause
them to lose focus and not be able to get
deep into the subject—that is, they won't have
concentration or a focused mind.  Distraction
leads to a loss of focus; concentration leads to
focus.  Therefore, in order to
cultivate this state of concentration,
one must first establish a
time frame.  And during
that time, people didn't do anything else for you to
talk about your homeland, your country, its
people, or anything that I didn't do.
That's how you guys have to practice.  A
common habit among young people these days is letting
themselves get distracted.  For example, studying
while listening to music, or drinking water while listening to
music.  That also causes you to sow the
seeds of dispersion.
If you drink a cup of tea, you
will observe the taste of the tea;
that is a form of concentration practice.
People in the past had very
calm and deep minds, and they found it very easy to practice meditation.
They drink tea when they drink tea, write
poetry when they write poetry, and listen to music when they listen to music.
What about me here?  I plug the earphones
in, listen to music, and then
do these things out of habit.
That means both things become unconscious at the same time.
Well, it only stirs up
emotions, but in reality,
you can't truly penetrate Buddhism, you ca
n't truly enter the Buddhist realm, and listening to
poetry doesn't allow you to truly connect with the
poetry itself.  Therefore, the kind of person who can write
poetry is someone who focuses entirely on poetry.
That's why people write such good poems.  For
those who appreciate music,
focusing on the emotional aspect first, and then studying comes
later.  But telling them to start studying right away
would be frustrating.  So now, if you want to
change that, you will have to
create a timeframe for doing one thing at a time
, never doing two things
simultaneously.  If this person tries to do two things at once, they will
never succeed
at anything that requires
concentration.  It's not very in-depth.  In monastic
life, they call this person someone who can never
achieve concentration, who can never attain meditative absorption.
It's because they think about two things at
once, so they can never achieve concentration.
Therefore, those who wish to achieve meditative absorption
must concentrate on one issue for a certain
period of time, according to their own capacity
.  For example, if you concentrate
for 10 minutes, it's too long; try
concentrating for 2 minutes instead.  Every two minutes we
stand up to rest and then we repeat the process
.  Focus on just one issue for every two minutes
.  Gradually, the children will develop a sense of purpose
and focus on what they want to do.
It will specialize in that area, and we will
develop that area very well.  Therefore,
those who are determined will be able to help and
benefit the world in great ways.  When people
have her, they very much hope that you will practice
Buddhism and cultivate a calm mind, which is very good.
To be able to concentrate, one must practice meditation.
To practice meditation effectively, one needs a
time frame and a focused object of concentration.  There you go
.  She will introduce Buddhist teachings so that you can
apply them to all aspects
of your life, and achieve success through
focused concentration.  Those who achieve great success are
those who are highly focused, deeply committed, and
determined; such people will reach
great success.  Young people really need
this, so you should definitely learn
about Buddhism and practice it; you will
benefit from it.
Thank you, teacher.  I just
missed question number eight a moment ago.  Now,
may I read it again?  Question number
eight.  Hello, teacher.  I have a question and
I hope you can answer it for me.  I am
18 years old and I am
gay.  In today's society,
there are many people like us, but for
society to fully accept
us is incredibly difficult.
So, could you tell me the reason?
What caused me to end up
like this in this life?
She has already answered.  So,
you guys in the information team, could you please help me
put this link in the comments
below so that if anyone is
watching my live stream today, they
can open that link and
watch it again later?  She
already answered that question.
Yes.  I'll read question number 11 now
.  Does going to the temple bring bad luck
?  The white dove Yen is a
student from the 2017 course. Last year, she participated in the
retreat.  After the retreat ended, something
unpleasant happened at my house.
I want to ask if my going to the
temple is the reason why my family is experiencing these problems?   I am very grateful to you, teacher
.
Ah, this is how the world sees things.
People in this world only see what
happens right in front of them.  So
what do people have?  My neighbor is the one who caused this to happen to me
.  Maybe today I'll step out the door with my left foot,
or maybe today I'll meet someone.
Those things give people
a lot to cling to.  People forget about good
fortune, and I forget about the karmic consequences of bad
deeds.
Just think, there are
so many accidents happening in this world, but it's not like
people who go to temples and then get into trouble.  That's because she
dismissed it; she hasn't analyzed the cause and effect, she hasn't
dismissed that kind of thinking.  It does not
exist.  There are people who have just
done a good deed only to encounter something
evil.  Some people who have just done evil deeds encounter
good fortune.  Some people who do evil will encounter evil,
while others who do good will immediately encounter good.
So here I will explain to
you about the Buddhist aspect.  In
Buddhism, there is cause, condition, and effect.  In
this cycle of cause and effect, there is immediate retribution, later retribution,
and retribution in this life.  Immediate retribution means that those who do
evil will immediately encounter evil.  Do good deeds and good will come to you
.  In
your case, it's the collective karma of the whole
family.  Furthermore, there's another aspect:
isolated karma—doing evil will immediately lead to evil consequences.  This means understanding
that the current situation affecting the family is a
balance
between good and evil.
That's always balanced.  If you do good deeds,
good will come to you.  Doing evil will always result in bad consequences
.  This means that the good and bad karma
of this family or this individual
are equal, but it is called immediate
retribution.
And the fact that some people who are doing
evil haven't been punished yet shows that
the balance of evil is currently strong while the balance of
good is weak.  Therefore, doing
one good deed alone is not enough to bring about balance
.  This is a kind of karmic
reward that can only be encountered later, or a karmic
retribution that will only come much later
.  Therefore, if
the balance is only slightly off,
then there will be consequences.
That means if you keep doing it, you'll get it
in this lifetime.  But if the
imbalance is too great, if there is too much evil,
then just keep doing good, doing good, doing good,
until the next life when it
balances out and karmic retribution occurs, meaning you will reap the rewards in the next life
.  There.  And what about those
whose karma is now causing them to do
evil, but because of the good deeds of this woman, she
takes this hand, representing that goodness?
People do so much good that it's not
balanced with good, so they
keep doing evil but still feel
lucky.  Until the two are
equal, people will experience a
period where doing good results in good outcomes, and doing evil results in
evil outcomes.  However, when people commit many evil deeds, then
good will diminish.  That
is the balance of cause and effect, encompassing both merit and
karma.  Going to the temple is like sowing good
karma, but because of
your family's accumulated negative karma,
the good deeds
you do at the temple are too small to
completely eliminate that negative karma.  That's why
some people say that once you're
unlucky, you'll be unlucky forever and never have good
fortune.  So why does that other person keep
getting lucky?  That's because
people have an abundance of goodness.  As for those who are
unlucky, they keep having bad luck because
they have already done so much evil.  When things go wrong, people
tend to do bad things.
So,
poverty and resentment are the right things to do, aren't they?
What was it?
Poverty and resentment
breed many
negative karmic connections.
She's just giving examples of poor and needy people
.  For example, that
neighbor is rich, but that's none
of my business.  My family is poor,
their family is rich.  But when they see people
eating something and then throwing it away, they still complain.
People curse when they see someone driving home in a fancy car,
but what does that have to do with them?  Wouldn't that
be sowing many seeds of negativity?  I'm
not doing anything financially.  Seeing
someone wearing that dress and looking like a prostitute doesn't
affect me at all.
Does wearing that beautiful dress automatically bring out a lot of good
fortune?  So, when we study Buddhism,
we understand this: if
we are poor, we will continue to cultivate
good deeds.  That girl over there is pretty, isn't she?  There.
Is that good?  Complimenting
people.  That guy is rich, he must have
done a lot of good deeds in his previous life
.  Let's just try our best. Will doing
good deeds bring us any luck?
I am fortunate to have received blessings in
this lifetime.  When that happens, that rich oil tycoon's family will say, 'Oh my god,
that family is poor.
We have plenty of fruit to give as gifts during Tet, so we'll bring it over.'
Enjoy the blessings right here in this lifetime.   Doing
more good deeds will generate
blessings.  So, the point here is that
you children should remember to do good deeds to
transform your karma and that of
your family as well, and not be superstitious.  The more
superstitious one becomes, the more they go to temples, make
offerings, and kill animals, thus increasing their suffering.
This is because they are sowing evil,
unwholesome seeds of suffering.
Okay, I'll move on to question number 12.
What should children do to ensure a happy family
?  Teacher, I also often worry
about many things in life.
My family is quite well-off.  Both my father and mother are
very caring and
affectionate towards me.  But my mother and I didn't have
much affection for my father.  I love my father very much,
but I also understand my mother very well.  How should I
think and act?
That means the children are now becoming worried
about their parents.  There are some children who are morally upright and
concerned about their parents.  Since I have a question, I'll send it to you as well
.  She answered today as well
.  My father is very caring
towards us, but my mother
cares about other people.  We don't
know how.  Now I don't
want my family to fall apart,
what should I do?
So, that means the children are very worried.  That
means parents don't often understand their children, they just
don't understand.  That means whenever I feel
angry at my husband, I just yell at him.  I
don't care what my child thinks either.  That
's because of selfishness.  That's why she
said that people often teach each other
selfishness.
So when faced with the same situation,
even the teacher himself suffers, he also
suffers.  Therefore, we should teach
people how to give generously.  In
her case, she should
confide in her mother and tell her about her father, and also express
her feelings, that she really wants
her family to be happy.  Then the children
created a situation that required something
we could just pretend about.  Today we're going to
prepare a meal with one dish, but I'll
ask Dad to buy this, and Mom to buy
that.  So, when the two of them get home, they'll have to
combine the dishes together.  Therefore, there are
many things that children can do to create a
bond with their parents.  So, the question is,
what kind of thinking is it?  The idea
is to do something to bring these two people closer
together.
Through the love of their children and
through shared care, parents will
bond with each other.  In
cases where parents cannot connect with their children, and the
children are unable to do so because the parents don't
listen to them, don't care about
them, don't pay attention to whether they are happy or
sad—meaning the parents are also
selfish, only caring
about themselves—then the children must
accept it because it is their fate.   My
father has his own destiny and karma, my mother
has her own destiny and karma, and I also
have my own destiny and karma. I can't possibly
tell my parents that I
never hear them speak ill of my mother or my mother speak ill of my father. To me, my
mother is also a valuable person, and my father is
also a valuable person. So, what I can't
discuss with them is that they
shouldn't speak ill of each other.
If we keep
hearing my mother speak ill of my father, and my father speak
ill of my mother, it will naturally make us
uncomfortable.  Because we're annoyed, we
'll treat those two people badly.
And we will feel uncomfortable with the two of
them, so we will break the
family's unity.  So, I'm making a deal with
you, Mom, I'm not going to listen to
Dad's number.  I made a deal with Dad that I wouldn't
listen to him tell him Mom's number.  And when all the music is playing
together, nobody is allowed to speak ill of anyone else.
Gradually, everyone will get
along better.
Her answer was that sowing seeds of love would lead to a
better family in the present.
After hearing her answer, Hoang Huy
hopes that our young people will also
know how to make their parents
get along better and be happier
.  Next, I would like to move on
to topic number three, which is spirituality
.   Excuse me,
teacher, but in your question,
there's a part that asks whether ghosts exist in this world.   If
there are ghosts in this world, then there must be.  That
is what Buddhism calls the realm of
hungry ghosts.  The realm of the hungry ghosts is said to be where ghosts exist.
As for the realm of hungry ghosts, they live
alongside us humans
.  There are things that we cannot see with our ordinary eyes
.  It's like,
before science developed,
we didn't know about these things,
and only when science advanced did we
discover that superbugs were present in
those environments.  As for things that science doesn't yet know, we can
never see them.  There
are many such machines available now
.  Those cameras that people use on the
streets are able to take
pictures of ghosts; they've managed to capture those images
.  There.  And there are also people who
see ghosts.  Seeing pimps doesn't even include Buddhist
practitioners, mind you.
Even ordinary people
can see ghosts.  Therefore, that thing is a ghost,
and it really exists.  In Buddhism, that is called a
hungry ghost.  In Vietnam, we use the term "
ghosts and spirits."  According
to Buddhist terminology, wandering souls are also called hungry ghosts.
Yes, thank you, teacher.   I'll move on
to question number 14.  To
which of the six realms of reincarnation does the soul belong
?  Hello, teacher.  I want to ask you something:
when a person dies,
will their soul be reincarnated as a human or
some kind of animal?  So, what are the souls
of the priests called when they are called to the altar in
the house?
Thank you, teacher.  I beg your pardon, teacher.   Okay,
here's the question.  When you
study Buddhism, you'll find that the
concept of the soul is not accepted within it.   That
means it's a different theory of the soul.  However,
what we commonly refer to
as spirits, ghosts, or demons are actually
different.  What is the theory of the soul
?
Go to eternal hell.  That's the theory of the
soul.  In Buddhism, we do not
accept the theory of the soul.
In Buddhist teachings, the Buddha taught that
humans create their own karmic forces.  When
we leave this human body, according to
karmic forces, we may go to the six realms of existence
.  Those are hell, hungry ghosts, animals,
gods, and asuras.  We're going to
those six canals.
Then there's what many people now,
in their studies,
call the theory of the soul that Buddha gave,
saying, "There's no such thing as a soul, so why are you
demanding a soul and making offerings to it?"
These two souls are two different criminals, but
people use different names for them.  In
Vietnam, we call the spirits in Buddhism "
souls."  In Vietnam, we also call
vengeful spirits in Buddhism "vong linh".  That's
also what you'd call it.  And in Vietnam,
we can also call fallen spirits our ancestors.
So, we have these
nouns, but their meanings belong to the
demons.  So, when
we die, some of
us go to the realm of
hungry ghosts, and this realm of hungry ghosts is where the
masters invite us.  That's the realm of the hungry ghosts;
if it were an animal, I wouldn't
invite them.  There was a woman named Mrs. Dat who
worked at Long Tien Temple.  So, after
her husband passed away, when the
49th day of his death was approaching, there was only one relative present.
She doesn't even know what Buddhism is.
But the women still believe in
spirits and they still offer sacrifices to the gods.  Then
the neighbor lady came over and had that
dream.  She went to another woman, and she said that
tomorrow, when buying a chicken, if
it has a rooster tied up in a
certain shape, don't kill it.  That's me
.  That means informing the neighbor about
it.  The neighbors didn't dare
say anything because they were afraid of causing trouble.  The next day when I went there, it was
exactly the same chicken
.  There.  That is something many people in the
world have come to know
through various means.  That is,
through the mind.  Our minds can perceive things in
many ways.  There are dreams,
intuitions, premonitions, and ways of
thinking.  There are many things that we can use to attract
evil spirits, so we can invite them into our homes to worship.
In the sutra on offering sacrifices to the
dead, the Buddha said this: it
never happens that when a
relative dies, there isn't
someone who falls into the realm of hungry ghosts.  The Buddha taught that there
is never a case where, after
one's relatives have died,
none of them have fallen into the realm of hungry ghosts.
Therefore, we still perform the proper rituals and offerings for the dead
.  So that
all beings in that realm may
receive offerings
appropriate to their needs.  This means that living people
can create blessings that they can then dedicate to
themselves.  That's the food of the
demon realm.
Yes.  Thank you, teacher.  Question number
15.  How can I meet a ghost?  That's a
very simple question.
Hello, teacher.  I'm from the Northwest Group
.  I wanted to ask you if you can
see ghosts?
How can we meet them
?  So you're saying you've encountered ghosts and you're still asking? That means
I've tried many times to do those
tricks based on instructions I found online.  For
example, the game of looking in the mirror and brushing my hair at
midnight, but I still haven't seen it.  I
hope you can answer my question, ma'am.
Thank you, teacher.  Yes.
We can see ghosts, for example, with their
faces and messy hair;
just looking at them and dealing with them is
exhausting enough.  And secondly, there
's the demonic mind within us, the
unwholesome thoughts within us that
cause us so much suffering. It's very difficult to chase away,
catch, restrain, throw away, or kill one of these demons
.  The monks now
are searching for
the inner demons, capturing and killing them all in order to become
saints.  So don't go looking for
ghosts outside.  Go find
that evil spirit and kill it.  Eradicate it completely,
don't let it sprout
again.  For example, nowadays we have
unfilial ghosts, lazy ghosts, gluttonous ghosts, and
unrighteous ghosts.  There are so many ghosts.  Go ahead and capture them all,
kill them all, that's fine.  As for the
ghosts that are seen like that, called fallen
spirits, there are two ways to see them.  One
reason is karma, the other is a vow.
Aspiration means that when people practice and cultivate themselves,
they have a connection with those beings
in the work of saving them, so they will
see them. Or, due to their spiritual power and
supernatural abilities, they will see them. Furthermore,
due to karma, they have a grudge against those beings, causing them to
follow them, harm them, or threaten them; even if
they don't want to see them, they still have to see them
.   The
demon within oneself would be the
best thing.  But once you catch the demon within your own heart, you
will see the demon.
If you see ghosts, you'll see many ghosts, or even celestial ghosts,
and then you'll see even more ghosts.
So don't go around pretending to be someone else and doing those
things online, because if you get possessed by a ghost, it will be
very difficult to escape.  Many children like that
are possessed by spirits and can't escape.   I
don't know how to escape because if my
mind calls it, it will come and I will
die.  Therefore, we should
n't try to find ways to see
ghosts.  If we go into that dark place and another
one appears, we won't know
where to run to
escape.  You just haven't seen it yet.  Actually, you
don't need to see a ghost in the dark.
That creature just runs away in a flash, and you're practically scared out of your wits; how could you possibly
see a ghost again?
So, if we see a ghost,
we have to figure out how to see it without being afraid of it
.
If you're afraid of ghosts, then you shouldn't see any ghosts at all
Yes, thank you, teacher.  These are messages of
thanks to her.  Hopefully,
her answers will help you
gain more accurate insights so that
you can view life and live
more authentically and happily.
Tomorrow will be an online session where Ms.
Pham Thi Yen can answer the
remaining questions for you all.  We hope you
can submit your answers to the questions
via comments on the online post
of the National Club for the Practice of
Six Harmonies.  Homage to our original teacher, Shakyamuni Buddha
.  Hello everyone.   Yes.
Thank you, Miss.